1
Security+
The data controller is responsible for investigating data breaches.

The data steward is responsible for the quality and labeling of the data.




2
Security+
ISO 27701 deals with data privacy, unlike ISO 27001 which deals with security.

ISO 31000 deals with risk management guidelines.




3
Security+
Continuous monitoring is used to log any failures or security vulnerabilities suffered by the application so that steps can be taken to remedy them.




4
Security+
Domain name kiting is the practice of repeatedly registering and deleting a domain name so that in effect, the registrant can own the domain name without paying for it.




5
Security+
Impossible time travel is where you are seen to log in in one location and then minutes later in another location that would be impossible to get to in time.




6
Security+
Self-encrypting drives (SEDs) encrypt data as it is written to the disk. Each disk has a disk encryption key (DEK) that is set at the factory and stored on the disk. The disk uses the DEK to encrypt data as it writes, and then to decrypt the data as it is read from disk.




7
Security+
ISO/IEC 27001 is the world’s best-known standard for information security management systems (ISMS) and their requirements. Additional best practice in data protection and cyber resilience are covered by more than a dozen standards in the ISO/IEC 27000 family.




8
Security+
OpenSSL
	Message digests
		support for many hashing protocols
	Encryption/decryption
		SSL/TLS for services




9
Security+
Fiber optic media is least susceptible to stealing information using wire taps. UTP and STP are the most susceptible to vampire taps.




10
Security+
Self-encrypting drives (SEDs) offer improved capabilities for an easy and speedy secure erase for situations when disks must be repurposed or returned for support or warranty reasons.




11
Security+
The Crossover Error Rate (CER) is where the False Rejection Rate (FRR) and the False Acceptance Rate (FAR) are equal. You would want to buy a biometric system with few errors.




12
Security+
Data roles
	Data controller
		Manages the purposes and means by which personal data is processed
	Data processor
		Processes data on behalf of  the data controller
		Often a third party or different group




13
Security+
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
	Policies, procedures, hardware, software, people
		Digital certificates: Create, distribute, manage, store revoke
	Also refers to the binding of public keys to people or devices
		The certificate authority




14
Security+
Certificate file formats
	X.509 digital certificates
		The structure of the certification is standardized
		The format of te actual certificate file can take many forms




15
Security+
Key revocation
	April 2014 - CVE-2014-0160
		Heartbleed
		OpenSSL flaw put the private key of affected web servers at risk
		OpenSSL was patched, every web server certificate was replaced
		Older certificates were moved to the CRL




16
Security+
ISO 27101 deals with cybersecurity frameworks.
ISO 27701 deals with privacy information management.




17
Security+
Privacy impact assessment (PIA)
	Almost everything can affect privacy
		New business relationships, product updates, website features, service offerings
	Privacy risk needs to be identified in each initiative
		How could the process compromise customer privacy?




18
Security+
PKI trust relationships
	Single CA
		Everyone receives their certificates from one authority
	Hierarchical
		Single CA issues certs to intermediate CAs
		Distributes the cert management load
		Easier to deal with the revocation of an intermediate CA than the root CA




19
UiPath Platform 2022.10
Cisco Webex Teams is a collaboration solution that keeps people and teamwork connected, bringing together messaging, file sharing, video meetings, white boarding, calling, and other tools used to streamline teamwork and achieve tangible results.

Cisco Webex Teams Activities can be used to automate user and room management, messaging, file sharing, and other collaboration tasks.




20
UiPath Platform 2022.10
Hubspot Marketing Hub provides tools to help your marketing department. Integrates seamlessly with Hubspot CRM to help your marketing team draw in and nurture more qualified leads.

With HubSpot Marketing Activities (Preview), you can create automated content creation, email campaign management, and analytics and data reporting tasks.




21
Security+
DES uses 56-bits, and AES goes up to 256 bits. These are both weak. Asymmetric encryption starts at around 1,024 bits.




22
Security+
Multi-party risk
	May 2019 - American Medical Collection Agency
		Provide debt collection for many different organizations
		Data breach disclosed personal information on 24 million individuals
		23 health care organizations affected by single breach




23
Security+
Continuous integration is the process whereby multiple software developers consolidate and test the code that they write to ensure that the different input codes do not conflict.




24
Accounting
Going Concern Principle: THis principle assumes that ac company will continue in business into the future. Without this assumption, most of the accounting information could not be presented in the Financial Statements since we are alwasy amking assumptions (e.g. what the life of a Long-Term Asset is).




25
Security+
Commercial certificate authorities
	Built into your browser
		Any browser
	Purchase your web site certificate
		It will be trusted by everyone's browser




26
Security+
The best way to destroy media (disks) is by shredding, followed by pulverizing, and then degaussing.




27
Security+
Private certificate authorities
	You are your own CA
		Build it in-house
		Your devices must trust the internal CA
	Needed for medium-to-large organizations
		Many web servers and privacy agreements
	Implement as part of your overall computing strategy with Windows Certificate Sercices, OpenCA




28
Security+
Service accounts
	Used exclusively by services running on a computer
		No interactive/user access (ideally)
		Web server, database server, etc
	Access can be defined for a specific service
		Web server rights and permissions will be different than those of a database server




29
Security+
Web server SSL certificates
	Domain validation certificate (DV)
		Owner of the certificate has some control over a DNS domain




30
Security+
The key management lifecycle
	Key Generation
		Create a key with the requested strength using the proper cypher
	Certificate Generation
		Allocate the key to a user
	Distribution
		Make the key available to the user




31
Security+
Data classifications
	Sensitive
		Intellectual property, PII, PHI
	Confidential
		Very sensitive, must be approved to view
	Critical
		Data should always be available




32
Security+
Continuous validation is where the application meets the designed goals and is deemed fit for purpose.

Continuous integration is the process where multiple software developers integrate their code to ensure that it is compatible.




33
Security+
Credential management
	Passwords must not be embedded int he application
		Everything needs to reside on the server, not the client
	Communication across the network should be encrypted
		Authentication traffic should be impossible to see.




34
Security+
Quantitative risk assessment
	Annualized Loss Expectancy (ALE)
		ARO x SLE
		Seven laptops stolen per year (ARO) * $1000 (SLE) = $7k/year
	THe business impact can be more than montetary
		Quantitative vs Qualitative




35
Security+
OpenSSL
	A toolkit for crypto libraries for SSL/TLS
		build certificates, manage SSL/TLS communication
	Create X.509 certificates
		Manage certificate signing requests (CSRs) and Certificate revocations lists (CRLs)




36
Security+
A Cloud access security broker, or CASB, is cloud-hosted software or on-premises software or hardware that act as an intermediary between users and cloud service providers. The ability of a CASB to address gaps in security extends across software-as-a-service (SaaS), platform-as-a-service (PaaS), and infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environments.




37
Security+
Password spraying is where the attacker obtains the account name of company individuals by looking at the company’s website and then uses the same common passwords for each of them.




38
Security+
Audit risk model
	Inherent risk
		Impact + likelyhood
		Risk that exists in the absense of controls
	Residual risk
		Inerhent risk + control effectiveness
		Risk that exists after controls have been considered




39
Security+
Evaluating risk
	Risk matrix/risk heat map
		View the results fo the risk assessment
		Visually identify risk based on color
		Combines the likely hood of an event with the potential impact
		Assists with making strategic decisions




40
Security+
ISO 27001 deals with security techniques for information security.
ISO 28001 deals with security management for supply chains.




41
Security+
Full-disk encryption (FDE) and self-encrypting drives (SED) encrypt data as it is written to the disk and decrypt data as it is read off the disk. FDE makes sense for laptops, which are highly susceptible to loss or theft. But FDE isn’t suitable for the most common risks faced in data center and cloud environments.




42
Security+
With Self-encrypting drives (SEDs), the operation of the disk, and its encryption and decryption, is transparent to the users who are reading and writing data. This default encryption and decryption mode is referred to as secure erase mode. In secure erase mode, you do not need an authentication key or password to decrypt and read data.




43
Security+
Registration authority (RA)
	The entity requesting the certificate needs to be verified
		The RA identifies and authenticate the requester
	Approval or rejection
		The foundation of trust in this model
	Also responsible for revocation
		Administratively revoked or by request




44
Security+
Risky logins are where someone has logged in to a web application using a different device than the one that's normally used.




45
Security+
Evaluating risk
	Risk register
		Every project has a plan, but also has risk
		Identify and document the risk associated wtih every step
		Apply possible solutions to identified risks
		Monitor the results




46
Security+
Salespeople connect to many different networks, including at events and hotels, therefore their laptops are connected to an air-gapped computer called a dirty computer to scan for malware. They also need to check that any presentation material that they obtained from events does not contain malware. This is done before they can connect to the network to ensure security and that they don't import malware into the company.




47
Accounting
General Ledger Accounts (GLs) are account numbers used to categorize types of financial transactions. Most commonly used GLs are revenues, expenses and transfers.




48
Security+
The data custodian is responsible for the storage, protection, and backing up of the data.

The data owner is responsible for classifying data and deciding who can access the data.




49
Security+
Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR) refers to technologies that enable organizations to collect inputs monitored by the security operations team. For example, alerts from the SIEM system and other security technologies — where incident analysis and triage can be performed by leveraging a combination of human and machine power — help define, prioritize and drive standardized incident response activities.




50
Security+
Get revocation details to the browser
	Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
		The browser can check certificate revocation
	Messages usually sent to an OCSP responder via HTTP
		Easy to support over internet links
		More efficient than downloading large CRLs




51
Security+
Certificate file forms
	There are many certificate file formats
		You can convert between many of the forats
		Use openssl or a siilar application to view the certificat contents




52
Security+
A dictionary attack can be spotted because it (potentially) uses words from a dictionary in alphabetical order. The best way to prevent dictionary password attacks is to use multifactor authentication as the dictionary attack is only a single factor.




53
Security+
The key management lifecycle
	Storage
		Securely store and protect against unauthorized use
	Revocation
		Manage keys that have been compromised
	Experiation
		A certificate mya only have a certain "shelf life"




54
Security+
Legal hold
	A legal technique to preserve relevant information
		Prepare for impending litigateion
		Initiated by legal counsel
	Hold notification
		Custodians are instructed to preserve data
	Separate repository for electronically stored information (ESI)




55
Security+
The security administrator is responsible for giving access to data.

The data controller is responsible for investigating data breaches.




56
Accounting
Corporations
Businesses that are given the right to exist by an individual state in the US. With this right to exist, the corporation is then allowed to sell stock. Those buying this stock become owners of the corporation.




57
Security+
The False Rejection Rate (FRR) is where authorized users cannot access the system.
The False Acceptance Rate (FAR) is where unauthorized users access your biometric system.




58
Security+
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)
	Format designed to transfer syntax for data structures
		A very specific encoding format
		Perfect for an X.509 certificate
	Binary format - Not human readable
	A common format
		Used across many platofrms, often with Java certificates




59
Security+
Digital forensics
	Collect and protect information relating to an intrusion
		Many different data sources and protection mechanisms
	RFC 3227 - Guidelines for Evidence Collection and Archiving
		good set of best practices
	3 stages
		Acquisition
		Analysis
		Reporting




60
UiPath Platform 2022.10
The Connector Builder will be housed in the Integration Service. It enables you to:

Create and use a custom connector in Studio.
Use custom connectors from the Studio Web.
Publish custom connectors and share them among users




61
Security+
Shadow IT is someone that puts a device on your network without consent.

An insider threat is a disgruntled employee who feels that they have been treated badly by the company.




62
Security+
 Wireless deauthentication is like a denial of service for a WAP that forces the client to attach to an evil twin that looks like the legitimate WAP. Once connected, the attacker can capture all of the information being sent through it. A sign of an evil twin is that internet access is slow but you cannot connect to the corporate network.




63
Security+
Moving laterally and attacking a host, virtual machine, or hypervisor is called VM escape. Moving laterally across a traditional network and attacking another host is called pivoting.




64
Security+
RAID 6 is a data storage approach that combines four or more hard drives into a single logical drive. Compared to individual data carriers, it boosts reliability of the system and read speeds. The basis for this is the combination of striping and parity, that also forms the basis of RAID level 5. It comes as little surprise then that RAID 6 is often referred to as “RAID 5 expansion”.




65
Security+
 In order, the best ways to destroy paper waste are burning, followed by pulping, then shredding.




66
Security+
theHarvester
	Gather OSINT
		Open-Source Intelligence
	Scrape information from google or bing
		Find associated IP adresses
	DNS brute force
		Find those unknown hosts; vpn, chat, mail, partner, etc




67
Accounting
Verifiable Information: Information on the financial statements must be based on sufficient evidence that can be substantiated and provides a reliable basis for evaluating the firm and its management.




68
Security+
Commercial certificate authorities
	Create a key pair, send the public key to a CA to be signed
		A certificate signing request (CSR)
	May provide different levels of trust and additional feaures
		Add a new "tag" to your website




69
Security+
Quantitative risk assessment
	Likelyhood
		Annualized Rate of Occurrence (ARO)
		How likely is it that a hurricane will hit? In Montana? Florida?
	Single Loss Expectancy (SLE)
		What is the monetary loss if a single event occurs?




70
Security+
Important certificate attributes
	Expiration
		Limit exposure to compromise
		398 day browser limit (13 months)




71
Security+
VM sprawl is where a virtual machine is running out of resources.
Privilege escalation occurs when someone has been given too many permissions.




